[MUSIC]
>> Rachel Nabors: Timing functions,
now things are going to get
exceedingly fun for us.
>> Rachel Nabors: So a falling ball
picks up speed due to gravity and
a rolling ball slows down from friction.
These are natural physical
ways that things around us respond
to the laws of our universe.
Now, easing is a way of showing those
sorts of changes in the rates of change.
It's also known as cushioning
back in studio animation,
they describe an animations
rate of change over time.
Let me show you a little
bit about what this means.
For instance deceleration is actually out.
Ease out can be thought of as accel,
ease in can be thought of as acceleration.
That's what those words mean.
I'll tell you a quick way to
remembering them in a moment.
Ease out,
ease in these are two default CSS values.
We also have one called linear.
Linear describes
a constant rate of change.
In the wild, it's very rare to
find anything with a constant rate
of change that is not manmade.
Pretty much everything is speeding up or
slowing down.
Even the universe is
speeding up as it's all
expanding from the center
where the big bang occurred.
So everything has the rate of change it's
nothing is constant not even change.
Man we're getting super zen today.
Yes, there easy is not only the law
of the universe but it is very zen.
So yes we get ease-in we got ease-out into
acceleration-acceleration we even get this
thing called ease-in-out which
basically goes starts and
slowly speeds up in the middle.
They can be hard to remember,
but we also have steps,
we're going to talk more about
that when we cover CSS animations.
So how do you remember which
one of these is which?
Well you can replace the word
ease with the words slow.
In fact,
back in the early days of animation
it wasn't called even easier
cushioning it was called slowing.
So easy in become slowing as it comes
on stage slowly but it leaves quickly.
It's inferred easy now goes out slowly.
So it looks like it's decelerating
going from fast to slow ease in,
out, slow, going both in and out,
must be going quicker in the middle.
That's how I remember them.
These are all very normal.
Ease in, out, ease in, ease out,
everybody is using these what if you wanna
make something look unique like you.
That's when you're going
to use custom cubic bezier.
Cubic bezier is another timing function.
It lets you give the browser
a set of values to say
what you want that rate of change to be.
Where do you want to speed up?
Where you want to slow down?
You can tell it this and you can make
it yourself, that's the fun part.
This is cubic-bezier.com and you can pull
this is what a cubit busy curve looks
like and as you can see as I mess with
the little the little toggles here
the little pools the number
is changing up top.
This is the value that we would be giving.
We will give to the browser to
tell it how we want change.
Let's compare this linear rate of
change down here in the blue box
to the curve that we just made.
The linear is going to be constant.
Notice how stick straight it is.
It's the same speed going across
the browser whereas mine's got a little
bit of a bounce.
So let's see what other
kinds of curves do.
Here we do this you'll notice
that it goes from very fast and
then it slows down a little
bit pretty awesome.
And then we do this like so and
this one should be slow and
then go very fast it's a hockey stick.
Yes it does work like what are they
called sparkling charts yeah.
Well there's another fun
thing that we can do,
we can make them using the tools as well.
I'm gonna start with Chrome because
Chrome's one everyone likes
but when it comes to animation, I tend to
prefer just a little bit more of the tools
that come with With Firefox and
I think you'll see why in a moment.
But let's start with everyone's fav.
So we've got my side that folds out.
It is my beautiful sidebar I love it
very much you can tell I spent a lot of
time on it.
>> Rachel Nabors: We're
gonna bounce this up here so
that you can see it better on the screen.
And I'm going to make this one even
smaller so it still shows there we go.
I love being able to zoom.
So we've got this little icon here and
we open it up.
We have access to this beauty.
Which let's us change things and
we get to see a little example up top
of how quickly the ball is moving.
It's a very cute visual example,
let us get a little preview and
then we can try it out over here.
And as you can see when
we pool pullet around,
the cubic bezeir is
updating not just here but
also Here in our transition boom.
So what's this look like with Firefox?
Well, it looks a little bit different
let's just put you at your default.
Now we're gonna go over here
inspect that slide out and
it will be over in our CSS rules.
And the icon on the cubic-bezier
is just a little bit
more difficult to see; it's
a little smaller, it's not purple.
It probably should be a color so
that it's more readily visible.
But I am not a UI designer for them,
but look at this beauty that you get,
you get at your curves here you also get
these corridors presets that you can play
with like let's see what circular looks
like by the way these are all these
are all easing that people used to have
regular access to back in the flash days.
It would be lovely, if we had a set of
defaults like this to use in the browser,
kind of like we could
describe quartic/ease/in,
in addition to just ease/in.
Maybe one day that will happen, in the
mean time we are smart, we can go out, and
we can get these.
We can get these different
cubic vase values ourselves.
And you can see that they've
been updated for us, boom.
>> Speaker 2: Quick question.
>> Rachel Nabors: Yes?
>> Speaker 2: Can you show how to access
Chrome's bezier curve stuff?
>> Rachel Nabors: Didn't I,
do you want me to show it again?
>> Speaker 2: The person is
just asking how to access it.
>> Speaker 3: If you don't have turned
on the animations that is in the console
which people probably won't in
the beginning, you won't see them.
So here it says, next the animation.
>> Rachel Nabors: So if you don't see
the animations tab in the console,
what you do is you go to the dots and
then you'll see it says console,
it says animations,
you click animations and it shows.
But we won't be using that
animation tab just not there.
I mean well we did when I was
showing the different speeds.
My apologies I didn't realize
it wasn't on par to fall.
I must turned it on it some
day in the past maybe one day.
It will be open by default for
everyone but
until then we'll have to
remember to use three dots.
>> Rachel Nabors: It's interesting also
because in the future I'm never really
sure where these are going to turn up.
Animations used to be up here somewhere.
And now it's in it's own tab and
it changes all the time.
So my apologies to people in
the future if Chrome has decided to
put these in some other corner
somewhere where they're hidden.
But yes, keeping bezier curves they're
accessible regardless of that tab
because they are CSS properties.
But yeah, all right,
enough playing with bezier curves.
>> Rachel Nabors: So you can use bezier
curves to give your site a very custom
feeling.
This is croptheblock.com,
you'll notice that they have
a very special drop-down menu.
It feels very special,
like someone is pushing against a spring
from behind you can almost feel like
the menus are made out of foam and
they're in the wind or something.
Let's take a closer look there.
So that is a custom easing.
It's not just using easing or
ease out that is custom and
it helps reinforce the brand of the site.
There's another site we can go to
if you want to get an overview of
these easing start net.
When you hover over each of the easing
you can get a little marker that will
indicate how quickly or
slowly something is moving.
And these are of course back from
the days of flash and there's the secret.
Say you find one that you really
like you're like I love easing quart
I got to have that when you click on it.
Look at this it even gives you the busy
curve for right there for you to use.
It's a nice tool if you want an overview
and you don't feel like poking around in
your dev tools or fooling around with
a bunch of pools and handles, and
you just want some solid
defaults to start with.
It's a good place to go.